General thoughts:
The project offered an interesting hands-on exercise that afforded a deeper understanding of the processes and tools of archiving specifically and collaboration in the digital sphere generally. The class readings regarding digital archives have been compelling in their own right, but gaining even this small taste of the actual work involved in one type of such archiving enriched the experience. Impelling small group collaboration is always an interesting challenge, but in our case worked out very well.  

Process:
The incremental introduction of tools and techniques for translating the scanned pages into a searchable, dynamic archival document was appreciated by all members of the team due to complete XML unfamiliarity. By introducing a few new, individually simple tasks each week, team collaboration was conducted in a constructive and collegial manner. With five pages total to render and five group members, page transcription was assigned individually but all members were encouraged to reach out for input at all stages, from manuscript deciphering to text encoding. Members were able to explore the concepts in the space without feeling overburdened by the assignment, and the increasing complexity ensured work was both challenging and engaging. The final product was sufficiently complex enough to make the month’s worth of work rewarding, though at no time did the work overwhelm the team members or disproportionately displace other work. Framing the work within the collaborative GitHub space also provided generalizable experience and understanding of digital tools that reached beyond the immediate application.    

Ironically, one of the greatest challenges for several of us had nothing to do with the digital technology, but rather with deciphering Shelley’s nineteenth century handwriting. Equally challenging was the extra credit portion regarding creation of the TEI header, as group members were unfamiliar with the sort of manuscript description provided in the commentary as well as given in the TEI examples.

Group dynamics:
Liam did an excellent job maintaining the group collaboration space and organizing meetings. The group preferred email correspondence as our primary means of communication between meetings, rather than through GitHub comments, as email was already part of our daily routine and thus a familiar interface. We also had a standing meeting prior to each MITH 610/ENGL668K class, during which time we discussed issues that had arisen and clarified expectations for the following week. Each group member performed the expected duties, leaving no others feeling overburdened. Students with the most confidence regarding the new XML skillset shared general knowledge and specific commands to ensure the final product met project specifications while guiding the final stages of project development. 
